Ever wished you could have a Snickers Bar... in cheesecake form? Well, today's your day! This outrageous cheesecake has a creamy milk chocolate center and is topped with plenty of caramel and roasted salted peanuts. Oh, and Snickers, obviously. Hungry? Grab a slice.

Made it? Let us know how it was in the comment section below! Looking for more Snickers recipes? This Snickers Lasagna has your name all over it.

YIELDS:
10 SERVINGS
PREP TIME:
0 HOURS 10 MINS
TOTAL TIME:
3 HOURS 5 MINS
INGREDIENTS
FOR THE CRUST:
2 c. finely crushed Nilla Wafers (from about 60 wafers)
6 tbsp. melted butter
Pinch kosher salt
FOR THE FILLING:
4 (8 oz) blocks of cream cheese, softened to room temperature
1 c. granulated sugar
3 large eggs
2 tsp. pure vanilla extract
1/4 c. sour cream
2 tbsp. all-purpose flour
1/4 tsp. kosher salt
3/4 c. milk chocolate chips, melted and cooled slightly
FOR GARNISH:
1/4 c. caramel
10 mini Snickers, roughly chopped
1/4 roasted salted peanuts, roughly chopped
GET INGREDIENTS Powered by Chicory
 
DIRECTIONS
Preheat oven to 325° and grease an 8" or 9" springform pan with cooking spray. Make crust: In a large bowl, mix together crushed wafers, butter, and salt. Press mixture into bottom of prepared pan and up the sides. 
In a large bowl using a hand mixer (or in the bowl of a stand mixer), beat cream cheese and sugar until no lumps remain. Add eggs, one at a time, then stir in vanilla and sour cream. Add flour and salt and beat until just combined. Remove 1 cup of mixture into a medium bowl, then pour half of the rest of the mixture over crust.
Add melted chocolate to reserved cup of cheesecake mixture and stir to combine. Dollop chocolate mixture over surface of cheesecake and use a butter knife to swirl, then top with remaining plain batter.
Wrap bottom of pan in aluminum foil and place in a large roasting pan. Pour in enough boiling water to come up halfway in the baking pan. 
Bake until center of cheesecake only slightly jiggles, about 1 hour 30 minutes. Turn off heat, prop open oven door, and let cheesecake cool in oven, 1 hour. 
When ready to serve, remove cheesecake from springform pan and top with a layer of caramel, peanuts, and chopped Snickers.
